
--- Page 1 ---
CUSTOMER PHISHING INCIDENT
RESPONSE
PREPARATION
OBJECTIVE: ESTABLISH CONTACTS, DEFINE PROCEDURES, GATHER INFORMATION
TO SAVE
TIME DURING AN INCIDENT.
▪ Create a list of all legitimate domains belonging to your company. This will help analyzing the
situation and prevent you from starting a takedown procedure on a forgotten legitimate website.
▪ Prepare one web page hosted on your infrastructure, ready to be published anytime, to warn
your
customers about an ongoing phishing attack. Prepare and test a clear deployment procedure as
well.
▪ Prepare takedown e-mail forms. You will use them for every phishing case, if possible, in
several
languages. This will speed up things when trying to reach the hosting company etc. during the
takedown process.
▪ Deploy DKIM, DMARC and SPF to all mail chain.
▪ Monitor cybersquatted domains and content posted on them. Gather contact and abuse
information
to be prepared in the case you need to use them.
Internal contacts
▪ Maintain a list of all people involved in domain names registration in the company.
▪ Maintain a list of all people accredited to take decisions on cybercrime and eventual actions
regarding
phishing. If possible, have a contract mentioning you can take decisions.
External contacts
▪ Have several ways to be reached in a timely manner (24/7 if possible):
o E-Mail address, easy to remember for everyone (ex: security@yourcompany)
o Web forms on your company’s website (location of the form is important, no more than 2 clicks
away from the main page)
o Visible Twitter account
▪ Establish and maintain a list of takedown contacts in:
o Hosting companies
o Registry companies
o E-Mail providers
Raise customer awareness
● Don’t wait for phishing incidents to communicate with your customers. Raise awareness
about phishing
● fraud, explain what phishing is and make sure your customers know you won’t ever ask
them for
● credentials/banking information by e-mail or on the phone.

--- Page 2 ---
Raise business line awareness
● People in business lines must be aware of phishing problems and consider security as a
priority.
● Therefore, they should apply good practices such as avoid sending links (URL) to
customers and use a
● signature stating that the company will never ask them for credential/banking information
online.
IDENTIFICATION
OBJECTIVE: DETECT THE INCIDENT, DETERMINE ITS SCOPE, AND INVOLVE THE
APPROPRIATE PARTIES.
Phishing Detection
▪ Monitor all your points of contact closely (e-mail, web forms, etc.).
▪ Deploy spam traps and try to gather spam from partners/third-parties.
▪ Deploy active monitoring of phishing repositories, like PhishTank and Google Safe Browsing for
example.
▪ Monitor any specialized mailing-list you can have access to, or any RSS/Twitter feed, which
could be
reporting phishing cases.
▪ Use automated monitoring systems on all of these sources, so that every detection triggers an
alarm
for instant reaction.
▪ Monitor your web logs. Check there is no suspicious referrer bringing people to your website.
This is
often the case when the phishing websites brings the user to the legitimate website after he’s
been
cheated.
Involve appropriate parties
As soon as a phishing website is detected, contact the people in your company who are
accredited to
take a decision, if not you.
The decision to act on the fraudulent website/e-mail address must be taken as soon as possible,
within
minutes.
Collect evidence
Make a time-stamped copy of the phishing web pages. Use an efficient tool to do that, like
HTTrack for
example. Don’t forget to take every page of the phishing scheme, not just the first one if there are
several. If needed, take screenshots of the pages.
Check the source-code of the phishing website:
▪ See where the data is exported: either to another web content you cannot access (a PHP script
usually), sent by e-mail to the fraudster or using an application API (like Telegram for example).
▪ Gather information about the phishing-actor which may be available in URI, source code and
credential dropping system (email addresses, Telegram bots, etc).
▪ Do the graphics come from one of your legitimate websites, or are they stored locally?
If possible, in case the graphics are taken from one of your own websites, you

--- Page 3 ---
CONTAINMENT
OBJECTIVE: MITIGATE THE ATTACK’S EFFECTS ON THE TARGETED ENVIRONMENT.
Spread the URL of the attack in case of a phishing website:
Use every way you have to spread the fraudulent URL on every web browser: use the options of
Internet
Explorer, Chrome, Safari, Firefox, Netcraft toolbar, Phishing-Initiative, etc.
This will prevent the users from accessing the website while you work on the remediation phase.
Spread the fraudulent e-mail content on spam-reporting websites/partners.
Communicate with your customers:
Deploy the alert/warning page with information about the current phishing attack.
REMEDIATION
OBJECTIVE: TAKE ACTIONS TO STOP THE PHISHING CAMPAIGN.
▪ In case the fraudulent phishing pages are hosted on a compromised website, try to contact the
owner of the website. Explain clearly the fraud to the owner, so that he takes appropriate actions:
remove the fraudulent content, and most of all upgrade the security on it, so that the fraudster
cannot
come back using the same vulnerability.
▪ In any case, also contact the hosting company of the website. Send e-mails to the contact
addresses
of the hosting company (generally there is an abuse@hostingcompany) then try to get someone
on
the phone, to speed things up.
▪ Contact the e-mail hosting company to shut down the fraudulent accounts which receive the
stolen
credentials or credit card information (Either on an “e-mail only” phishing case or on a usual one,
if
you managed to get the destination e-mail address).
▪ In case there is a redirection (the link contained in the e-mail often goes to a redirecting URL)
also
take down the redirection by contacting the company responsible for the service.
▪ In case you get no answer, or no action is taken, don’t hesitate to call back and send e-mails on
a
regular basis.
RECOVERY
OBJECTIVE: RESTORE THE SYSTEM TO NORMAL OPERATIONS.
Assess the end of the phishing case
▪ Ensure that the fraudulent pages and/or e-mail address are down.
▪ Keep monitoring the fraudulent URL. Sometimes a phishing website can reappear some hours
later. In
case a redirection is used and not taken down, monitor it very closely.
▪ At the end of a phishing campaign, remove the associated warning page from your website.

--- Page 4 ---
LESSONS LEARNED
OBJECTIVE: DOCUMENT THE INCIDENT’S DETAILS, DISCUSS LESSONS LEARNED,
AND
ADJUST PLANS AND DEFENSES.
Report
A crisis report should be written and made available to all of the actors of the crisis management
cell.
The following themes should be described:
▪ Initial cause of the infection
▪ Actions and timelines of every important event
▪ What went right
▪ What went wrong
▪ Incident cost
Capitalize
▪ Consider what preparation steps you could have taken to respond to the incident faster or more
efficiently.
▪ Update your contacts-lists and add notes as to what is the most effective way to contact each
involved
party.
▪ Consider what relationships inside and outside your organization could help you with future
incidents.
▪ Collaborate with legal teams if a legal action is required.